\input texinfo
@c -*-texinfo-*-

@c %**start of header
@setfilename gnunet.info
@documentencoding UTF-8
@settitle GNUnet Reference Manual
@c %**end of header

@include version.texi

@c Set Versions which might be used in more than one place:
@set GNUNET-DIST-URL https://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/gnunet/
@set GNUNET-VERSION 0.10.1
@set GNURL-VERSION-CURRENT 7.55.1
@set GNURL-DIST-URL https://gnunet.org/sites/default/files/
@c @set OPENPGP-SIGNING-KEY-ID

@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2017 GNUnet e.V.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free
Documentation License''.

A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
Foundation Web site at @url{http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.

Alternately, this document is also available under the General
Public License, version 3 or later, as published by the Free Software
Foundation.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
``GNU General Public License''.

A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
Foundation Web site at @url{http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html}.
@end copying

@c TODO: Improve this and improve https://directory.fsf.org/wiki/Gnunet

@dircategory Networking
@direntry
* GNUnet: (gnunet).       Framework for secure peer-to-peer networking
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title GNUnet Reference Manual
@subtitle Installing, configuring, using and contributing to GNUnet
@author The GNUnet Developers

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Edition @value{EDITION} @*
@value{UPDATED} @*

@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents
@c *********************************************************************
@node Top
@top Contributing to GNUnet
@c *********************************************************************

This document describes GNUnet version @value{VERSION}.


GNUnet is a @uref{http://www.gnu.org/, GNU} package. All code contributions
must thus be put under the
@uref{http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html, GNU Public License (GPL)}.
All documentation should be put under FSF approved licenses
(see @uref{http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html, fdl}).

By submitting documentation, translations, comments and other content to this
website you automatically grant the right to publish code under the
GNU Public License and documentation under either or both the GNU
Public License or the GNU Free Documentation License. When contributing
to the GNUnet project, GNU standards and the
@uref{http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/philosophy.html, GNU philosophy}
should be adhered to.

Note that we do now require a formal copyright assignment for GNUnet
contributors to GNUnet e.V.; nevertheless, we do allow pseudonymous
contributions.  By signing the copyright agreement and submitting your
code (or documentation) to us, you agree to share the rights to your
code with GNUnet e.V.; GNUnet e.V. receives non-exclusive ownership
rights, and in particular is allowed to dual-license the code. You
retain non-exclusive rights to your contributions, so you can also
share your contributions freely with other projects.

GNUnet e.V. will publish all accepted contributions under the GPLv3 or any
later version. The association may decide to publish contributions under
additional licenses (dual-licensing).

We do not intentionally remove your name from your contributions; however,
due to extensive editing it is not always trivial to attribute contributors
properly. If you find that you significantly contributed to a file (or the
project as a whole) and are not listed in the respective authors file or
section, please do let us know.



@menu

* Philosophy::                      About GNUnet
* GNUnet Installation Handbook::    How to install GNUnet
* Using GNUnet::                    Using GNUnet
* GNUnet Developer Handbook::       Developing GNUnet
* GNU Free Documentation License::  The license of this manual.
* GNU General Public License::      The license of this manual.
* Concept Index::                   Concepts.
* Programming Index::               Data types, functions, and variables.

@detailmenu
 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Philosophy

* Design Goals::
* Security & Privacy::
* Versatility::
* Practicality::
* Key Concepts::
* Authentication::
* Accounting to Encourage Resource Sharing::
* Confidentiality::
* Anonymity::
* Deniability::
* Peer Identities::
* Zones in the GNU Name System (GNS Zones)::
* Egos::
* Backup of Identities and Egos::
* Revocation::

Installation

* Dependencies::
* External dependencies::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@c *********************************************************************
@include chapters/philosophy.texi
@c *********************************************************************

@c *********************************************************************
@include chapters/installation.texi
@c *********************************************************************

@c *********************************************************************
@include chapters/user.texi
@c *********************************************************************

@c *********************************************************************
@include chapters/developer.texi
@c *********************************************************************


@c *********************************************************************
@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License
@cindex license, GNU Free Documentation License
@include fdl-1.3.texi

@c *********************************************************************
@node GNU General Public License
@appendix GNU General Public License
@cindex license, GNU General Public License
@include gpl-3.0.texi

@c *********************************************************************
@node Concept Index
@unnumbered Concept Index
@printindex cp

@node Programming Index
@unnumbered Programming Index
@syncodeindex tp fn
@syncodeindex vr fn
@printindex fn

@bye
