.\" This file is part of GNUnet.
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2019 GNUnet e.V.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the file
.\" FDL-1.3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.
.\"
.\" Alternately, this document is also available under the General
.\" Public License, version 3 or later, as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation.  A copy of the license is included in the file
.\" GPL3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL3.0-or-later OR FDL1.3-or-later
.\"
.Dd March 4, 2013
.Dt GNUNET-PEERINFO 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gnunet-peerinfo
.Nd display information about other peers
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl g | -get-hello
.Op Fl h | -help
.Op Fl i | -info
.Op Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
.Op Fl l Ar LOGFILE | Fl -logfile= ns Ar LOGFILE
.Op Fl n | -numeric
.Op Fl p Ar HELLO | Fl -put-hello= Ns Ar HELLO
.Op Fl q | -quiet
.Op Fl s | -self
.Op Fl v | -version
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
displays the known addresses and trust of known peers.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
Load config file, default FILENAME of the config is 
.Pa ~/.config/gnunet.conf .
.It Fl g | -get-hello
Output HELLO uri(s)
.It Fl h | -help
Print the help page.
.It Fl i | -info
List all known peers (and their addresses).
.It Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
Set the loglevel
.It Fl l Ar LOGFILE | Fl -logfile= ns Ar LOGFILE
Log messages to LOGFILE
.It Fl n | -numeric
Disable resolution of IPs to hostnames
.It Fl p Ar HELLO | Fl -put-hello= Ns Ar HELLO
Add given HELLO uri to the database
.It Fl q | -quiet
Do not print anything but the peer identities
.It Fl s | -self
Print only our own identity.
Together with
.Fl q ,
this is the exact line that other peers would have to put in to their friends file in order to consider this peer one of their friends in F2F mode.
.It Fl v | -version
Print the version number
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gnunet.conf 5
.sp
The full documentation for gnunet is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.Xr info 1
and gnunet programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet
.Pp
should give you access to the complete handbook,
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet-c-tutorial
.Pp
will give you access to a tutorial for developers.
.sp
Depending on your installation, this information is also available in
.Xr gnunet 7 and
.Xr gnunet-c-tutorial 7 .
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Sh AUTHORS
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://bugs.gnunet.org
or by sending electronic mail to
.Aq Mt gnunet-developers@gnu.org .
