.TH GNUNET-DOWNLOAD-MANAGER 1 "October 26, 2018" "GNUnet"
.SH NAME
gnunet-download-manager \- manage downloads across sessions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnunet\-download\-manager
.RI [ options ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgnunet\-download\-manager\fP is a script that can be used to track
download sessions.
It makes the process of resuming downloads after a system reboot
easier.
A typical use is to define an alias (depending on your shell) of the
form:
.TP
$ alias gnunet\-download='gnunet\-download\-manager.scm download'
.PP
The options for the download manager include:
.TP
.B download
download
.TP
.B resume
resumes all downloads
.TP
.B status
show status of pending downloads
.TP
.B killall
abort all downloads
.TP
.B settings
for configuration
.TP
.B help
print help text
.PP
gnunet\-download\-manager is a Scheme script and will only work if GNU
Guile is available.
.SH EXAMPLES
(add-hook! *completed-download-hook* completed-download-notification-hook)
.TP
Add this to the configuration file to be notified of completed
downloads.
.SH FILES
.TP
~/.gnunet-download-manager.scm
Configuration file.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs by using mantis <https://bugs.gnunet.org/> or by sending
electronic mail to <gnunet-developers@gnu.org>.
.PP
Furthermore it is assumed that gnunet-download-manager is no longer
working correctly with Guile 2.2 series or current GNUnet, bugfixes
are welcome.
.SH SEE ALSO
gnunet\-download(1)
The full documentation for
.B gnunet
is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.B info
and
.B gnunet
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info gnunet
.PP
should give you access to the complete handbook,
.IP
.B info gnunet-c-tutorial
.PP
will give you access to a tutorial for developers.
.PP
Depending on your installation, this information is also
available in
\fBgnunet\fP(7) and \fBgnunet-c-tutorial\fP(7).
.SH HISTORY
.SH AUTHORS
gnunet\-download\-manager was contributed by Ludovic Courtes in 2004.
