.\" This file is part of GNUnet.
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2019 GNUnet e.V.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the file
.\" FDL-1.3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.
.\"
.\" Alternately, this document is also available under the General
.\" Public License, version 3 or later, as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation.  A copy of the license is included in the file
.\" GPL3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL3.0-or-later OR FDL1.3-or-later
.\"
.Dd September 5, 2013
.Dt GNUNET-NAMESTORE-FCFSD 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gnunet-namestore-fcfsd
.Nd HTTP server for GNU Name System First-Come-First-Served name registration
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl h | -help
.Op Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
.Op Fl v | -version
.Op Fl z Ar EGO | -zone= Ns Ar EGO
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Most users will not want to run an FCFS-zone and thus will not need this program.
.Pp
.Nm
runs a web server where users can register names to be mapped to their GNS zone.
Names are made available on a First Come First Served basis (hence fcfs).
Registered names do not expire.
The HTTP server is run on the port that is specified in the configuration file in section "[fcfsd]" under the name "HTTPPORT".
.Pp
It is possible to manage gnunet-gns-fcfsd using gnunet-(service-arm) by starting the daemon using "gnunet-arm -i fcfsd" or by setting "IMMEDIATE_START=YES" in the "fcfds" section of your configuration and the "-z ZONE" in as the "OPTION".
.Pp
An FCFS-zone is run at
.Lk http://gnunet.org/fcfs/ .
GNS users are encouraged to register their zone with the gnunet.org FCFS authority.
.Pp
If you want to run your own FCFS registrar, you need to first create a pseudonym (using "gnunet-identity -C NAME"), and use it with the
.Fl z
option.
After that, you can start the FCFSD service (possibly using
.Xr gnunet-arm 1 Ns ).
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
Use the configuration file FILENAME.
.It Fl h | -help
Print short help on options.
.It Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
Use LOGLEVEL for logging.
Valid values are DEBUG, INFO, WARNING and ERROR.
.It Fl v | -version
Print GNUnet version number.
.It Fl z Ar EGO | -zone= Ns Ar EGO
Specifies for which
.Ar EGO
FCFSD should manage the zone.
.El
.\".Sh EXAMPLES
.\".Sh FILES
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gnunet-identity 1 ,
.Xr gnunet-gns 1 ,
.Xr gnunet-gns-proxy 1
.sp
The full documentation for gnunet is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.Xr info 1
and gnunet programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet
.Pp
should give you access to the complete handbook,
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet-c-tutorial
.Pp
will give you access to a tutorial for developers.
.sp
Depending on your installation, this information is also available in
.Xr gnunet 7 and
.Xr gnunet-c-tutorial 7 .
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Sh AUTHORS
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://bugs.gnunet.org
or by sending electronic mail to
.Aq Mt gnunet-developers@gnu.org .
