.\" This file is part of GNUnet.
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2019 GNUnet e.V.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the file
.\" FDL-1.3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.
.\"
.\" Alternately, this document is also available under the General
.\" Public License, version 3 or later, as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation.  A copy of the license is included in the file
.\" GPL3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL3.0-or-later OR FDL1.3-or-later
.\"
.Dd October 16, 2015
.Dt GNUNET-ATS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gnunet-ats
.Nd display information about transport resource allocation
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl a | -all
.Op Fl C Ar PEERID | Fl -connect= Ns Ar PEERID
.Op Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl h | -help
.Op Fl i Ar PEERID | Fl -id= Ns Ar PEERID
.Op Fl k Ar VALUE | Fl -value= Ns Ar VALUE
.Op Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
.Op Fl m | -monitor
.Op Fl n | -numeric
.Op Fl p Ar PREFERENCE | Fl -preference= Ns Ar PREFERENCE
.Op Fl q | -quotas
.Op Fl t Ar TYPE | Fl -type= Ns Ar TYPE
.Op Fl u | -used
.Op Fl V | -verbose
.Op Fl v | -version
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
can be used to display information about the
GNUnet's transport selection mechanism.
It shows information about the addresses and
the assigned input and output bandwidth.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a | -all
List all addresses currently known to ats.
.It Fl C Ar PEERID | Fl -connect= Ns Ar PEERID
Ask ATS to suggest an address for PEERID to transport
to establish a connection.
Note that you can use the
.Xr gnunet-transport 1
commandline tool to force disconnects.
.It Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
Use the configuration file FILENAME.
.It Fl h | -help
Print short help on options.
.It Fl i Ar PEERID | Fl -id= Ns Ar PEERID
Print information for a specific peer identity only.
.It Fl k Ar VALUE | Fl -value= Ns Ar VALUE
Value to set for when changing preference values.
.It Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
Use LOGLEVEL for logging.
Valid values are DEBUG, INFO, WARNING and ERROR.
.It Fl m | -monitor
Monitor changes to the bandwidth assignments continuously.
.It Fl n | -numeric
Do not resolve IP addresses to hostnames.
.It Fl p Ar PREFERENCE | Fl -preference= Ns Ar PREFERENCE
Set preference values, -i, -k and -t required.
.It Fl q | -quotas
Print quotas for all network types
.It Fl t Ar TYPE | Fl -type= Ns Ar TYPE
Preference type to change: latency | bandwidth
.It Fl u | -used
Print addresses actively used only
.It Fl V | -verbose
Print verbose output (include ATS address properties)
.It v | -version
Print GNUnet version number.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gnunet-transport 1
.sp
The full documentation for gnunet is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.Xr info 1
and gnunet programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet
.Pp
should give you access to the complete handbook,
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet-c-tutorial
.Pp
will give you access to a tutorial for developers.
.Pp
Depending on your installation, this information is also available in
.Xr gnunet 7 and
.Xr gnunet-c-tutorial 7 .
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://bugs.gnunet.org
or by sending electronic mail to
.Aq Mt bug-gnunet@gnu.org .
