.\" This file is part of GNUnet.
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2019 GNUnet e.V.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the file
.\" FDL-1.3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.
.\"
.\" Alternately, this document is also available under the General
.\" Public License, version 3 or later, as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation.  A copy of the license is included in the file
.\" GPL3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL3.0-or-later OR FDL1.3-or-later
.\"
.Dd May 3, 2016
.Dt GNUNET-CADET 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gnunet-cadet
.Nd
create or obtain information about CADET tunnels and peers
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl C Ar CONNECTION_ID | Fl \-connection= Ns Ar CONNECTION_ID
.Op Fl d | \-dump
.Op Fl e | \-echo
.Op Fl o Ar SHARED_SECRET | Fl \-open-port= Ns Ar SHARED_SECRET
.Op Fl p Ar PEER_ID | Fl \-peer= Ns Ar PEER_ID
.Op Fl P | \-peers
.Op Fl T | \-tunnels
.Op Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl \-config= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl h | \-help
.Op Fl l Ar FILENAME | Fl \-logfile= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl \-loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
.Op Fl v | \-version
.Ao Ar PEER_ID Ac
.Ao Ar SHARED_SECRET Ac
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
prints information about CADET tunnels and peers.
It can also be used for command-line based CADET tunnels using the
.Fl o Ar SHARED_SECRET
option to open a port on a receiving
.Ar PEER_ID
and using
.Nm
.Ao Ar PEER_ID Ac
.Ao Ar SHARED_SECRET Ac
to establish one circuit to that peer from any other peer.
The receiving process will only accept one incoming circuit, but several commands using the same
.Fl o
can be issued to satisfy multiple requests.
For one-to-many communication
.Xr gnunet-social 1
may be better suited, however.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl C Ar CONNECTION_ID | Fl \-connection= Ns Ar CONNECTION_ID
Provide information about the connection
.Ar CONNECTION_ID .
.It Fl d | \-dump
Dump debug information to stderr.
.It Fl e | \-echo
Activate echo mode.
.It Fl o Ar SHARED_SECRET | Fl \-open-port= Ns Ar SHARED_SECRET
Listen for connections using a shared secret, provided as
.Ar SHARED_SECRET ,
among sender and recipient.
.It Fl p Ar PEER_ID | Fl \-peer= Ns Ar PEER_ID
Provide information about the peer
.Ar PEER_ID .
.It Fl P | \-peers
Provide information about all (known) peers.
.It Fl T | \-tunnels
Provide information about all tunnels.
.It Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl \-config= Ns Ar FILENAME
Use the configuration file
.Ar FILENAME .
.It Fl h | \-help
Print the help page.
.It Fl l Ar FILENAME | Fl \-logfile= Ns Ar FILENAME
Configure logging to write logs to
.Ar FILENAME .
.It Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl \-loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
Use LOGLEVEL for logging.
Valid values are DEBUG, INFO, WARNING and ERROR.
.It Fl v | \-version
Print the GNUnet version number.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
The full documentation for gnunet is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.Xr info 1
and gnunet programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet
.Pp
should give you access to the complete handbook,
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet-c-tutorial
.Pp
will give you access to a tutorial for developers.
.sp
Depending on your installation, this information is also available in
.Xr gnunet 7 and
.Xr gnunet-c-tutorial 7 .
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Sh AUTHORS
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://bugs.gnunet.org
or by sending electronic mail to
.Aq Mt gnunet-developers@gnu.org .
