.\" This file is part of GNUnet.
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2019 GNUnet e.V.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the file
.\" FDL-1.3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.
.\"
.\" Alternately, this document is also available under the General
.\" Public License, version 3 or later, as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation.  A copy of the license is included in the file
.\" GPL3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL3.0-or-later OR FDL1.3-or-later
.\"
.Dd January 4, 2012
.Dt GNUNET-STATISTICS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gnunet-statistics
.Nd display statistics about your GNUnet system
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl h | -help
.Op Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
.Op Fl l Ar FILENAME | Fl -logfile= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl n Ar NAME | Fl -name= Ns Ar NAME
.Op Fl o Ar PORT | Fl -port= Ns Ar PORT
.Op Fl p | -persistent
.Op Fl q | -quiet
.Op Fl r Ar REMOTE | Fl -remote= Ns Ar REMOTE
.Op Fl S Ar SEPARATOR | Fl -csv-separator= Ns Ar SEPARATOR
.Op Fl s Ar SUBSYSTEM | Fl -subsystem= Ns Ar SUBSYSTEM
.Op Fl t Ar PATH | Fl -testbed= Ns Ar PATH
.Op Fl v | -version
.Op Fl w | -watch
.Ao Ar VALUE Ac
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used to display detailed information about various aspect of GNUnet's operation.
This tool only works if the "statistics" service is available.
gnunet-statistics can be used to set a value by giving the options -n, -s and also a VALUE.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
Use the configuration file FILENAME.
.It Fl h | -help
Print short help on options.
.It Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
Use LOGLEVEL for logging.  Valid values are DEBUG, INFO, WARNING and ERROR.
.It Fl l Ar FILENAME | Fl -logfile= Ns Ar FILENAME
Configure logging to write logs to FILENAME
.It Fl n Ar NAME | Fl -name= Ns Ar NAME
Each statistic has a NAME that is unique with in its subsystem.
With this option, the output can be restricted to statistics that have a particular NAME.
.It Fl o Ar PORT | Fl -port= Ns Ar PORT
PORT for remote host
.It Fl p | -persistent
When setting a value, make the value persistent.
If the value used to be persistent and this flag is not given, it will be marked as non-persistent.
.It Fl q | -quiet
Just print the statistics value
.It Fl r Ar REMOTE | Fl -remote= Ns Ar REMOTE
Connect to a remote host given as REMOTE.
.It Fl S Ar SEPARATOR | Fl -csv-separator= Ns Ar SEPARATOR
Specify a separator for generating csv-output.
.It Fl s Ar SUBSYSTEM | Fl -subsystem= Ns Ar SUBSYSTEM
Statistics are kept for various subsystems.
With this option, the output can be restricted to a particular subsystem only.
.It Fl t Ar PATH | Fl -testbed= Ns Ar PATH
When running testbed, you can get statistics of all peers with specefying the
folder containing the data of all testbed nodes like
.Pp
.Dl $ gnunet-statistics -t /tmp/testbedARtmQv
.Pp
.It Fl v | -version
Print GNUnet version number.
.It Fl w | -watch
Watch value continuously.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gnunet-service-statistics 1
.sp
The full documentation for gnunet is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.Xr info 1
and gnunet programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet
.Pp
should give you access to the complete handbook,
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet-c-tutorial
.Pp
will give you access to a tutorial for developers.
.sp
Depending on your installation, this information is also available in
.Xr gnunet 7 and
.Xr gnunet-c-tutorial 7 .
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Sh AUTHORS
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://bugs.gnunet.org
or by sending electronic mail to
.Aq Mt gnunet-developers@gnu.org .
