.\" This file is part of GNUnet.
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2019 GNUnet e.V.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the file
.\" FDL-1.3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.
.\"
.\" Alternately, this document is also available under the General
.\" Public License, version 3 or later, as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation.  A copy of the license is included in the file
.\" GPL3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL3.0-or-later OR FDL1.3-or-later
.\"
.Dd October 25, 2012
.Dt GNUNET-GNS-PROXY 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gnunet-gns-proxy
.Nd run a client-side GNS SOCKS proxy
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl a Ar AUTHORITY | Fl -authority= Ns Ar AUTHORITY
.Op Fl p Ar PORT | Fl -port= Ns Ar PORT
.Op Fl h | -help
.Op Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
.Op Fl v | -version
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Most users will want to run this SOCKS proxy.
It can be used in combination with browsers that support the SOCKS 4a protocol.
.Pp
The proxy will perform SSL authentication of GNS names and rewrite GNS enabled HTML content.
To assert the validity of GNS names a local root CA certificate has to be generated that is used by the proxy.
Thus "gnunet-gns-proxy-setup-ca" should be executed before the first launch of this proxy or the --authority switch is used to specify an appropriate CA certificate that is already trusted by the browser.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
Use the configuration file FILENAME.
.It Fl a Ar AUTHORITY | Fl -authority= Ns Ar AUTHORITY
Path to a PEM CA file that contains the certificate and private key of the CA to use to assert the validity of GNS names.
The default port is specified in the configuration file for the gns service under "[gns-proxy]":
"[gns-proxy]"
PROXY_CACERT
.It Fl p Ar PORT | Fl -port= Ns Ar PORT
The port this proxy should listen on. Default is 7777.
.It Fl h | -help
Print short help on options.
.It Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
Use LOGLEVEL for logging.
Valid values are DEBUG, INFO, WARNING and ERROR.
.It Fl v | -version
Print GNUnet version number.
.El
.\".Sh EXAMPLES
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gnunet-gns 1
.sp
The full documentation for gnunet is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.Xr info 1
and gnunet programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet
.Pp
should give you access to the complete handbook,
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet-c-tutorial
.Pp
will give you access to a tutorial for developers.
.sp
Depending on your installation, this information is also available in
.Xr gnunet 7 and
.Xr gnunet-c-tutorial 7 .
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Sh AUTHORS
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://bugs.gnunet.org
or by sending electronic mail to
.Aq Mt gnunet-developers@gnu.org .
