.\" This file is part of GNUnet.
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2019 GNUnet e.V.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the file
.\" FDL-1.3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.
.\"
.\" Alternately, this document is also available under the General
.\" Public License, version 3 or later, as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation.  A copy of the license is included in the file
.\" GPL3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL3.0-or-later OR FDL1.3-or-later
.\"
.Dd March 15, 2012
.Dt GNUNET-REVOCATION 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gnunet-revocation
.Nd
revoke private keys (of egos) in GNUnet
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl t Ar KEY | Fl \-test= Ns Ar KEY
.Op Fl R Ar NAME | Fl \-revoke= Ns Ar NAME
.Op Fl p | \-perform
.Op Fl f Ar NAME | Fl \-filename= Ns Ar NAME
.Op Fl c Ar FILENAME, Fl \-config= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl h | \-help
.Op Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl \-loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
.Op Fl v | \-version
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
can be used to verify if a key has been revoked, to create a revocation certificate for later revocation, to instantly revoke a key and to use a pre-generated revocation certificate to revoke a key.
Upon successful revocation, all peers will be informed about the invalidity of the key.
As this is an expensive operation, GNUnet requires the issuer of the revocation to perform an expensive proof-of-work computation before they will be allowed to perform the revocation.
gnunet-revocation will perform this computation.
The computation can be performed ahead of time, with the resulting revocation certificate being stored in a file for later "instant" use.
gnunet-revocation also makes is possible to resume the pre-calculation of a revocation --- simply abort a running proof-of-work calculation with CTRL-C, and the existing revocation certificate file will contain the status of the computation.
Note that performing a revocation proof-of-work is deliberately VERY expensive.
Depending on your CPU, the calculation can take days or weeks.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl t Ar KEY | Fl \-test= Ns Ar KEY
Check if the given KEY (ASCII\-encoded public key required) has been revoked.
.It Fl R Ar NAME | Fl \-revoke= Ns Ar NAME
Calculate or perform revocation for the ego with the given NAME.
.It Fl p | \-perform
Actually perform the revocation as soon as possible (do not just generate a revocation certificate, use it).
Must be supplied to actually perform the revocation.
.It Fl f Ar NAME | Fl \-filename= Ns Ar NAME
Use NAME as the name of the file that is to contain the revocation certificate.
Intermediate computation results will be stored here, as well as the final revocation certificate.
When used together with \-p, this file will be inspected to see if it contains a valid certificate for instant revocation, in which case the revocation can be performed instantly.
If the given file contains anything (a valid certificate, with or without the completed proof-of-work) there is no need to supply the "\-R" option or to still have the private key of the ego to perform the revocation.
.It Fl c Ar FILENAME, Fl \-config= Ns Ar FILENAME
Use the configuration file FILENAME.
.It Fl h | \-help
Print short help on options.
.It Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl \-loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
Use LOGLEVEL for logging.
Valid values are DEBUG, INFO, WARNING and ERROR.
.It Fl v | \-version
Print GNUnet version number.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
The full documentation for gnunet is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.Xr info 1
and gnunet programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet
.Pp
should give you access to the complete handbook,
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet-c-tutorial
.Pp
will give you access to a tutorial for developers.
.sp
Depending on your installation, this information is also available in
.Xr gnunet 7 and
.Xr gnunet-c-tutorial 7 .
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Sh AUTHORS
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://bugs.gnunet.org
or by sending electronic mail to
.Aq Mt gnunet-developers@gnu.org .
