.Dd January 4, 2012
.Dt GNUNET-TESTING 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gnunet-testing
.Nd
command line tool to access the testing library
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl C | \-cfg
.Op Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl \-config= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl H | \-hostkeys
.Op Fl h | \-help
.Op Fl k | \-key
.Op Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl \-loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
.Op Fl l Ar LOGFILE | Fl \-logfile= Ns Ar LOFILE
.Op Fl n | \-number
.Op Fl t | \-template
.Op Fl v | \-version
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a command line tool to access the testing library.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl C | \-cfg
Create unique configuration files.
.It Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl \-config= Ns Ar FILENAME
Use the configuration file FILENAME.
.It Fl H | \-hostkeys
Host key file.
.It Fl h | \-help
Print short help on options.
.It Fl k | \-key
Create hostkey files from pre-computed hostkey list.
.It Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl \-loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
Use LOGLEVEL for logging.  Valid values are DEBUG, INFO, WARNING and ERROR.
.It Fl l Ar LOGFILE | Fl \-logfile= Ns Ar LOFILE
Configure logging to write logs to LOGFILE.
.It Fl n | \-number
Number of unique configuration files or hostkeys to create.
.It Fl t | \-template
Configuration template.
.It Fl v | \-version
Print GNUnet version number.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
The full documentation for gnunet is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.Xr info 1
and gnunet programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet
.Pp
should give you access to the complete handbook,
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet-c-tutorial
.Pp
will give you access to a tutorial for developers.
.sp
Depending on your installation, this information is also available in
.Xr gnunet 7 and
.Xr gnunet-c-tutorial 7 .
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Sh AUTHORS
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://bugs.gnunet.org
or by sending electronic mail to
.Aq Mt gnunet-developers@gnu.org .
