.\" This file is part of GNUnet.
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2019 GNUnet e.V.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the file
.\" FDL-1.3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.
.\"
.\" Alternately, this document is also available under the General
.\" Public License, version 3 or later, as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation.  A copy of the license is included in the file
.\" GPL3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL3.0-or-later OR FDL1.3-or-later
.\"
.Dd January 6, 2017
.Dt GNUNET-NAT-AUTO 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gnunet-nat-auto
.Nd
autoconfigure and test NAT traversal
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl a | \-auto
.Op Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl \-config= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl S Ar NAME | Fl \-section= Ns Ar NAME
.Op Fl t | \-tcp
.Op Fl u | \-udp
.Op Fl w | \-write
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
allows testing various NAT traversal functions, as well as attempting auto-configuration.
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a | \-auto
Attempt auto-configuration for NAT traversal.
.It Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl \-config= Ns Ar FILENAME
Use the configuration file
.Ar FILENAME .
.It Fl S Ar NAME | Fl \-section= Ns Ar NAME
Name of the configuration section with details about the configuration to test.
For example "transport-tcp".
.It Fl t | \-tcp
Use TCP.
.It Fl u | \-udp
Use UDP.
.It Fl w | \-write
Write configuration to configuration file, useful in combination with auto-configuration
.Pq Fl a .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Ss Automatic configuration:
.Pp
.Dl # gnunet-nat-auto -aw
.Pp
Probe and write result to configuration
.Ss Test configuration:
.Pp
.Pp
.Dl # gnunet-nat-auto -t -S transport-tcp
.Pp
Test TCP configuration
.Pp
.Dl # gnunet-nat-auto -t -S transport-http
.Pp
Test HTTP configuration
.Pp
.Dl # gnunet-nat-auto -u -S transport-udp
.Pp
Test UDP configuration
.\".Sh FILES
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gnunet-nat 1 ,
.Xr gnunet-transport 1
.sp
The full documentation for gnunet is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.Xr info 1
and gnunet programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet
.Pp
should give you access to the complete handbook,
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet-c-tutorial
.Pp
will give you access to a tutorial for developers.
.sp
Depending on your installation, this information is also available in
.Xr gnunet 7 and
.Xr gnunet-c-tutorial 7 .
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Sh AUTHORS
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://bugs.gnunet.org
or by sending electronic mail to
.Aq Mt gnunet-developers@gnu.org .
