.\" This file is part of GNUnet.
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2019 GNUnet e.V.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the file
.\" FDL-1.3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.
.\"
.\" Alternately, this document is also available under the General
.\" Public License, version 3 or later, as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation.  A copy of the license is included in the file
.\" GPL3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL3.0-or-later OR FDL1.3-or-later
.\"
.Dd April 15, 2014
.Dt GNUNET-NAMESTORE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gnunet-namestore
.Nd manipulate GNU Name System (GNS) zone data
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl a | -add
.Op Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl d | -delete
.Op Fl D | -display
.Op Fl e Ar TIME | Fl -expiration= Ns Ar TIME
.Op Fl h | -help
.Op Fl i Ar NICKNAME | Fl -nick= Ns Ar NICKNAME
.Op Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
.Op Fl m | -monitor
.Op Fl n Ar NAME | Fl -name= Ns Ar NAME
.Op Fl p | -public
.Op Fl r Ar PKEY | Fl -reverse= Ns Ar PKEY
.Op Fl R Ar RECORDLINE | Fl -replace= Ns Ar RECORDLINE
.Op Fl s | -shadow
.Op Fl t Ar TYPE | Fl -type= Ns Ar TYPE
.Op Fl u Ar URI | Fl -uri= Ns Ar URI
.Op Fl v | -version
.Op Fl V Ar VALUE | Fl -value= Ns Ar VALUE
.Op Fl z Ar EGO | Fl -zone= Ns Ar EGO
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
can be used to manipulate records in a GNS zone.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a | -add
Desired operation is adding a record.
.It Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
Use the configuration file FILENAME.
.It Fl d | -delete
Desired operation is deleting records under the given name that match
the specified type (-t) and value (-V).
If type or value are not specified, it means that all types (or
values) should be assumed to match (and possibly multiple or all
values under the given label will be deleted).
Specifying a label (-n) is mandatory.
Note that matching by expiration time or flags is (currently) not
supported.
.It Fl D | -display
Desired operation is listing of matching records.
.It Fl e Ar TIME | Fl -expiration= Ns Ar TIME
Specifies expiration time of record to add; format is relative time,
i.e "1 h" or "7 d 30 m".
Supported units are "ms", "s", "min" or "minutes", "h" (hours), "d"
(days) and "a" (years).
.It Fl h | -help
Print short help on options.
.It Fl i Ar NICKNAME | Fl -nick= Ns Ar NICKNAME
Set the desired NICKNAME for the zone.
The nickname will be included in all (public) records and used as the
suggested name for this zone.
.It Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
Use LOGLEVEL for logging.
Valid values are DEBUG, INFO, WARNING and ERROR.
.It Fl m | -monitor
Monitor changes to the zone on an ongoing basis (in contrast to -D,
which merely displays the current records).
.It Fl n Ar NAME | Fl -name= Ns Ar NAME
Label or name of the record to add/delete/display.
.It Fl p | -public
Create a record that is public (shared with other users that know the
label).
.It Fl r Ar PKEY | Fl -reverse= Ns Ar PKEY
Determine our GNS name for the given public key (reverse lookup of the
PKEY) in the given zone.
.It Fl R Ar RECORDLINE | Fl -replace= Ns Ar RECORDLINE
Sets record set to values given in RECORDLINE.
This option can be specified multiple times to provide multiple
records for the record set.
Existing records under the same label will be deleted.
The format for the RECORDLINE is "TTL TYPE FLAGS VALUE" where TTL is
the time to live in seconds (unit must not be given explicitly,
seconds is always implied), TYPE is the DNS/GNS record type,
FLAGS is "(N)ORMAL", "(S)HADOW" or "(P)UBLIC".
The VALUE follows the usual human-readable value format(s) of DNS/GNS.
.It Fl s | -shadow
Create a record that is a shadow record.
Shadow records are only used once all other records of the same type
under the same label have expired.
.It Fl t Ar TYPE | Fl -type= Ns Ar TYPE
Type of the record to add/delete/display (i.e. "A", "AAAA", "NS", "PKEY", "MX" etc.).
.It Fl u Ar URI | Fl -uri= Ns Ar URI
Add PKEY record from gnunet://gns/-URI to our zone; the record type is
always PKEY, if no expiration is given FOREVER is used
.It Fl v | -version
Print GNUnet version number.
.It Fl V Ar VALUE | Fl -value= Ns Ar VALUE
Value to store or remove from the GNS zone.
Specific format depends on the record type.
A records expect a dotted decimal IPv4 address, AAAA records an IPv6
address, PKEY a public key in GNUnet's printable format, and CNAME and
NS records should be a domain name.
.It Fl z Ar EGO | Fl -zone= Ns Ar EGO
Specifies the name of the ego controlling the private key for the
zone. If not provided, we will attempt to use the default identity set
for the "namestore". Alternatively, a private key may be passed in
Base32-encoding using the GNUNET_NAMESTORE_EGO_PRIVATE_KEY environment
variable. The latter is useful to improve performance of tools like
Ascension as it allows the command to skip IPC with the identity
management subsystem.
.El
.\".Sh EXAMPLES
.\".Sh FILES
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gnunet-gns 1 ,
.Xr gnunet-namestore-gtk 1
.sp
The full documentation for GNUnet is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.Xr info 1
and gnunet programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet
.Pp
should give you access to the complete handbook,
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet-c-tutorial
.Pp
will give you access to a tutorial for developers.
.sp
Depending on your installation, this information is also available in
.Xr gnunet 7 and
.Xr gnunet-c-tutorial 7 .
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Sh AUTHORS
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://bugs.gnunet.org
or by sending electronic mail to
.Aq Mt gnunet-developers@gnu.org .
