.\" This file is part of GNUnet.
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2019 GNUnet e.V.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the file
.\" ``FDL-1.3''.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at @url{http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.
.\"
.\" Alternately, this document is also available under the General
.\" Public License, version 3 or later, as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation.  A copy of the license is included in the file
.\" ``GPL3''.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at @url{http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html}.
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL3.0-or-later OR FDL1.3-or-later
.\"
.Dd July 15, 2012
.Dt GNUNET-CONFIG 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gnunet-config
.Nd
manipulate GNUnet configuration files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl \-config= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl f | \-filename
.Op Fl h | \-help
.Op Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl \-loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
.Op Fl o Ar OPTION | Fl \-option= Ns Ar OPTION
.Op Fl S |\-list-sections
.Op Fl s Ar SECTION | Fl \-section= Ns Ar SECTION
.Op Fl V Ar VALUE | Fl \-value Ar VALUE
.Op Fl v | \-version
.Op Fl W | \-rewrite
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
can be used to read or modify GNUnet configuration files.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl \-config= Ns Ar FILENAME
Use the configuration file FILENAME.
.It Fl f | \-filename
Try to perform expansions as if the option values represent filenames (will also be applied even if the option is not really a filename).
.It Fl h | \-help
Print short help on options.
.It Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl \-loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
Use LOGLEVEL for logging.
Valid values are DEBUG, INFO, WARNING and ERROR.
.It Fl o Ar OPTION | Fl \-option= Ns Ar OPTION
Which configuration option should be accessed or edited.
Required to set a value.
If not given, all values of a given section will be printed in the format "OPTION = VALUE".
.It Fl S |\-list-sections
List available configuration sections for use with \-\-section.
.It Fl s Ar SECTION | Fl \-section= Ns Ar SECTION
Which configuration section should be accessed or edited.
Required option.
.It Fl V Ar VALUE | Fl \-value Ar VALUE
Configuration value to store in the given section under the given option.
Must only be given together with \-s and \-o options.
.It Fl v | \-version
Print GNUnet version number.
.It Fl W | \-rewrite
Consider differences to defaults only.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
The full documentation for gnunet is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.Xr info 1
and gnunet programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet
.Pp
should give you access to the complete handbook,
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet-c-tutorial
.Pp
will give you access to a tutorial for developers.
.sp
Depending on your installation, this information is also available in
.Xr gnunet 7 and
.Xr gnunet-c-tutorial 7 .
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Sh AUTHORS
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://bugs.gnunet.org
or by sending electronic mail to
.Aq Mt gnunet-developers@gnu.org .
