.TH GNUNET\-CONVERSATION\-TEST 1 "October 30, 2013" "GNUnet"
.SH NAME
gnunet\-conversation\-test \- check your speaker and microphone settings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnunet\-conversation\-test [OPTIONS]
.RI URI
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgnunet\-conversation\-test\fP can be used to check your speaker and
microphone settings.
It will record you for five seconds and then play the recording back
to you.
If this fails, you might want to use the \fBpavucontrol\fP tool to
check which microphone or speaker were assigned to GNUnet by
PulseAudio (you may have more than one set of microphones or speakers
known to your computer).
You can use gnunet\-conversation\-test without having a peer running
on your computer.
.SH OPTIONS
.B
.IP "\-c FILENAME,  \-\-config=FILENAME"
Use the configuration file FILENAME.
.B
.IP "\-h, \-\-help"
Print short help on options.
.B
.IP "\-L LOGLEVEL, \-\-loglevel=LOGLEVEL"
Use LOGLEVEL for logging.
Valid values are DEBUG, INFO, WARNING and ERROR.
.B
.IP "\-v, \-\-version"
Print GNUnet version number.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs by using Mantis <https://bugs.gnunet.org/> or by sending
electronic mail to <gnunet\-developers@gnu.org>
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgnunet\-conversation\fP(1)
The full documentation for
.B gnunet
is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.B info
and
.B gnunet
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info gnunet
.PP
should give you access to the complete handbook,
.IP
.B info gnunet-c-tutorial
.PP
will give you access to a tutorial for developers.
.PP
Depending on your installation, this information is also
available in
\fBgnunet\fP(7) and \fBgnunet-c-tutorial\fP(7).
