.\" This file is part of GNUnet.
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2019 GNUnet e.V.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the file
.\" FDL-1.3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.
.\"
.\" Alternately, this document is also available under the General
.\" Public License, version 3 or later, as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation.  A copy of the license is included in the file
.\" GPL3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL3.0-or-later OR FDL1.3-or-later
.\"
.Dd May 12, 2019
.Dt GNUNET-RECLAIM 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gnunet-reclaim
.Nd Command-line tools for re:claimID subsystem
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl h | -help
.Op Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
.Op Fl l Ar LOGFILE | Fl -logfile= Ns Ar LOGFILE
.Op Fl e Ar EGO | Fl -ego= Ns Ar EGO
.Op Fl a Ar NAME | Fl -add= Ns Ar NAME
.Op Fl V Ar VALUE | Fl -value= Ns Ar VALUE
.Op Fl d Ar ID | Fl -delete= Ns Ar ID
.Op Fl r Ar RP | Fl -rp= Ns Ar RP
.Op Fl D | -dump
.Op Fl i Ar A1,A2,... | Fl -issue= Ns Ar A1,A2,...
.Op Fl C Ar TICKET | Fl -consume= Ns Ar TICKET
.Op Fl R Ar TICKET | Fl -revoke= Ns Ar TICKET
.Op Fl t Ar TYPE | Fl -type= Ns Ar TYPE
.Op Fl T | -tickets
.Op Fl E Ar INTERVAL | Fl -expiration= Ns Ar INTERVAL
.Op Fl v | -version
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
allows you to manage identity attributes and manage authorizations.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
Use the configuration file FILENAME.
.It Fl h | -help
Print short help on options.
.It Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
Use LOGLEVEL for logging.
Valid values are DEBUG, INFO, WARNING and ERROR.
.It Fl l Ar LOGFILE | Fl -logfile= Ns Ar LOGFILE
Configure logging to write logs to LOGFILE.
.It Fl e Ar EGO | Fl -ego= Ns Ar EGO
Specify identity to use. Always required.
.It Fl a Ar NAME | Fl -add= Ns Ar NAME
Add an attribute with NAME. Must be used in conjunction with -V
.It Fl V Ar VALUE | Fl -value= Ns Ar VALUE
Specify value of attribute to add.
.It Fl t Ar TYPE | Fl -type= Ns Ar TYPE
Specify type of attribute to add (Default: STRING)
.It Fl d Ar ID | Fl -delete= Ns Ar ID
Delete an attribute with ID.
.It Fl E Ar INTERVAL | Fl -expiration= Ns Ar INTERVAL
Specify relative expiration interval (freshness) of attribute.
.It Fl D | -dump
List all attributes for given identity.
.It Fl i Ar A1,A2,... | Fl -issue= Ns Ar A1,A2,...
Authorize a relying party to access a set of attributes. Must be
used in conjunction with -r. Returns a TICKET.
.It Fl r Ar RP | Fl -rp= Ns Ar RP
The relying party to authorize (see -i). RP is a PKEY of the entity.
.It Fl C Ar TICKET | Fl -consume= Ns Ar TICKET
Consume TICKET and retrieve shared attributes. To be used by RP.
.It Fl R Ar TICKET | Fl -revoke= Ns Ar TICKET
Revoke TICKET. To be used by identity which issued TICKET.
.It Fl T | -tickets
List issued tickets.
.It Fl v | -version
Print GNUnet version number.
.El
.\".Sh EXAMPLES
.Sh SEE ALSO
The full documentation for gnunet is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.Xr info 1
and gnunet programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet
.Pp
should give you access to the complete handbook,
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet-c-tutorial
.Pp
will give you access to a tutorial for developers.
.sp
Depending on your installation, this information is also available in
.Xr gnunet 7 and
.Xr gnunet-c-tutorial 7 .
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Sh AUTHORS
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://bugs.gnunet.org
or by sending electronic mail to
.Aq Mt gnunet-developers@gnu.org .
