.\" This file is part of GNUnet.
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2019 GNUnet e.V.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the file
.\" ``FDL-1.3''.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at @url{http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.
.\"
.\" Alternately, this document is also available under the General
.\" Public License, version 3 or later, as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation.  A copy of the license is included in the file
.\" ``GPL3''.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at @url{http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html}.
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL3.0-or-later OR FDL1.3-or-later
.\"
.Dd January 4, 2012
.Dt GNUNET-ARM 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gnunet-arm
.Nd control GNUnet services
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl \-config= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl d | \-delete
.Op Fl e | \-end
.Op Fl E | \-no-stderr
.Op Fl h | \-help
.Op Fl i Ar SERVICE | Fl \-init= Ns Ar SERVICE
.Op Fl I | \-info
.Op Fl k Ar SERVICE | Fl \-kill= Ns Ar SERVICE
.Op Fl l Ar FILENAME | Fl \-logfile= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL |  Fl \-loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
.Op Fl m | \-monitor
.Op Fl O | \-no-stdout
.Op Fl q | \-quiet
.Op Fl r | \-restart
.Op Fl s | \-start
.Op Fl T DELAY | \-timeout= Ns Ar TIMEOUT
.Op Fl v | \-version
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
can be used to start or stop GNUnet services,
including the ARM service itself.
The ARM service is a supervisor for GNUnet's service processes.
ARM starts services on-demand or as configured and restarts them
if they crash.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl \-config= Ns Ar FILENAME
Use the configuration file FILENAME.
.It Fl d | \-delete
Delete config file and directory on exit.
.It Fl e | \-end
Shutdown all GNUnet services (including ARM itself).
Running "gnunet-arm -e" is the usual way to shutdown a GNUnet peer.
.It Fl E | \-no-stderr
Don't let gnunet-arm inherit standard error.
.It Fl h | \-help
Print short help on options.
.It Fl i Ar SERVICE | Fl \-init= Ns Ar SERVICE
Starts the specified SERVICE if it is not already running.
More specifically, this makes the service behave as if it were in
the default services list.
.It Fl I | \-info
List all running services.
.It Fl k Ar SERVICE | Fl \-kill= Ns Ar SERVICE
Stop the specified SERVICE if it is running.
While this will kill the service right now, the service may be
restarted immediately if other services depend on it (service is
then started 'on-demand').
If the service used to be a 'default' service, its default-service
status will be revoked.
If the service was not a default service, it will just
be (temporarily) stopped, but could be re-started on-demand at any time.
.It Fl l Ar FILENAME | Fl \-logfile= Ns Ar FILENAME
Write logs to FILENAME.
.It Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL |  Fl \-loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
Use LOGLEVEL for logging.
Valid values are DEBUG, INFO, WARNING and ERROR.
.It Fl m | \-monitor
Monitor service activity of ARM.
In this mode, the command will not terminate until the user presses CTRL-C.
.It Fl O | \-no-stdout
Don't let gnunet-arm inherit standard output
.It Fl q | \-quiet
Don't print status messages.
.It Fl r | \-restart
Stop and start all GNUnet default services.
.It Fl s | \-start
Start all GNUnet default services on this system (and also ARM).
Naturally, if a service is demanded by a default service, it will
then also be started.
Running "gnunet-arm -s" is the usual way to start a GNUnet peer.
.It Fl T DELAY | \-timeout= Ns Ar DELAY
Exit with error status if operation does not finish after DELAY
.It Fl v | \-version
Print GNUnet version number.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Start the gnunet-arm for the user:
.Pp
.Dl gnunet-arm -s
.Pp
Stop the gnunet-arm for the user:
.Pp
.Dl $ gnunet-arm -e
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gnunet-config 1 ,
.Xr gnunet-setup 1
.sp
The full documentation for gnunet is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.Xr info 1
and gnunet programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet
.Pp
should give you access to the complete handbook,
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet-c-tutorial
.Pp
will give you access to a tutorial for developers.
.sp
Depending on your installation, this information is also available in
.Xr gnunet 7 and
.Xr gnunet-c-tutorial 7 .
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Sh AUTHORS
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://bugs.gnunet.org
or by sending electronic mail to
.Aq Mt gnunet-developers@gnu.org .
